.TH xfstt 1x 2002-09-27 1.3.1 "Xfstt User's Manual" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
xfstt \- X11 font server for *ttf fonts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xfstt
[--port n] [--notcp] [--dir dirname] [--cache cachedir] [--unstrap]
[--multi] [--once] [--user username]
[[--gslist] --sync]
[--res resolution] [--encoding list]
[--help]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Xfstt serves *ttf fonts to X11 servers.  Start xfstt then tell X11 about the 
font server with
.B "xset fp+ unix/:7101"
or (assuming the X11 server runs on host 127.0.0.1)
.B "xset fp+ inet/127.0.0.1:7101"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I "\-\-sync"
Synchronize the font database with installed fonts and exit when done.
Don't do this while xfstt is running.
.TP
.I "\-\-gslist"
Print font list in a format usable for ghostscript during
.BR \-\-sync .
Currently the
.B \-\-gslist
option has to be before the
.B \-\-sync
option:
xfstt --gslist --sync
.TP
.I "\-\-user username
This is a security feature which is designed to lessen the impact of 
any future security holes which are found in xfstt. This will cause
xfstt to set its UID and GID to that of the specified user 
(if that user doesn't exist then it will use your current UID and GID)
.TP
.I "\-\-encoding"
Remap to different encodings. Default is iso8859-1. Usage example: 
.br
.B xfstt --encoding iso8859-2,koi8-r,windows-1251
.br
.B !!! NOTE: one comma but no blanks between the encodings !!!
.TP
.I "\-\-port number"
Change the port number for xfstt's font services.
This version of Xfstt defaults to port
.IR 7101 .
.TP
.I "\-\-notcp"
Don't open TCP socket, use unix domain only.
.TP
.I "\-\-dir name"
Change xfstt's font directory.
The default directory is
.IR /usr/share/fonts/truetype .
.TP
.I "\-\-cache name"
Change xfstt's font cache directory.
The default directory is
.IR /var/cache/xfstt .
.TP
.I "\-\-res value"
Force the resolution for underspecified fonts to value (typically 96 or 120).
Default is the value the X11 server suggests which can be adjusted by the
-dpi option of the X11 server. Standard X11 servers have defaults of 72 dpi.
.TP
.I "\-\-unstrap"
Allow some more unicode characters. This is dangerous for many X11 servers.
Start the X server with the "-deferglyphs 16" option to give the X server
a better chance of surviving. For very carefully implemented X servers you
may recompile with UNSTRAPLIMIT set to 65535 in order to get the complete
unicode range.
.TP
.I "\-\-once"
Exit after the font client disconnects.
.TP
.I "\-\-multi"
Opposite of
.B --once
option. This has become the default behaviour,
so it is obsolete now and is ignored for backwards compatibility.
It will be removed in a future release.
.TP
.I "\-\-inetd"
Tell xfstt to be used as inetd service.
.TP
.I "\-\-daemon"
Behave like a daemon.
.TP
.I "\-\-help"
Print brief usage information on standard output and exit.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xfs (1),
.BR xset (1),
.BR X (1),
.BR inetd (8).
.SH AUTHORS
Originally written by Herbert Duerr <duerr@de.ibm.com>.
.br
Has been maintained by Steven Carpenter <sjc@debian.org>.
.br
Current maintainer is Guillem Jover <guillem.jover@menta.net>.
